Hi everyone, this is a short presentation on the iccv 2021 paper "practical
relative order attack in deep ranking".

deep ranking is based on deep metric learning.  and previous works show that
these models are vulnerable to adversarial attacks.  the ranking result can be
drammatically changed.

however, the previous attacks only focus on changing the absolute rank, namely
the absolute positions of the selected candidates, while neglecting the
possibility to change the relative order among the selected candidates.

in this paper, we propose order attack to manipulate the relative order.

specifically, we propose a triplet-style loss function for white-box order
attack, and a short-range ranking correlation as surrogate objective for
black-box order attack.

so, what is order attack?

Assume we have a query image, and the top-5 candidates in the ranking reuslt is
a, b, c, d, e.

then the attacker can specify a descired permutation for the five candidates,
and conduct order attack to change their relative order into, for example, a,
e, d, c, b.

In applications such as online shopping based on search-by-image, order attack
could impact the click-through rate and hence influence the sales.

1:20

for white box order attack, we select a set of candidates, and we want to find
a perturbation that leads to a specified permutation.

The permutation can be converted into an ineuqality chain, which can be further
decomposed into a series of inequalities.

and the inequalities can be reformulated into a series of triplet loss
functions.

these loss function can be optimized through existing optimization methods such
as projected gradient descent.

to validate the effectiveness of the white-box order attack, we conduct
experiments on fashion-mnist dataset and stanford oneline product dataset.

for example, when we choose five candidates from the top part of the ranking
list, and set the perturbation budget to four over two hundred and fifty five,
our attack achieves a kendall's ranking correlation of zero point four one two
on fashion-mnist, and zero point four four eight on stanford online product.

this means the relative order is basically aligned with the specified one.

+ 1:10

for black-box order attack, the triplet-style loss function is infeaisble
because the graidnet is inaccessible.

to this end, we propose a short range ranking correlation, which measures the
alignment between the specified permutation and the acutal ranking result. a
high value indicates a good alignment.

It can be used as a surrogate objective to approximate the triplet-style loss
function.  black-box optimizers such as NES can be used to optimize it.

now we conduct black-box attack experiment on the fashion-mnist dataset with
five different black-box optimizers.

the results show that our proposed black-box order attack is effective.

with five selected candidates and a perturbation budget of four over two
hundred and fifity five, a kendall ranking correlation of zero point four one
six can be achieved without making the ranking result abnormal.

similarly, our black-box attack is also effective on the stanford oneline
products dataset.

+1:10

now we show case some examples of pracitcal attack against a major e-commerce
platform, namely Jingdong snapshop

with the query image, the top-5 results are product a, b, c, d, e.  but with an
adversarially perturbed query image, the relative order among them becomes a,
e, d, c, b.

here are more qualitative results.

and quantitative results. our black-box attack is effective in practical
scenarios.

we also tried the attack on miscrosoft bing visual search api.

ok thank you for watching.

The corresponding preprint is avaiable on arxiv, and the code is avaialble on
github.

+0:45
